#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Reading the Writing on the Wall: 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Using Yelp to Predict Restaurant Closings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Harsh Jha, John Maloney and Dominic Smith
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is commonly reported that between 60 and 90 percent of businesses fail
 within three years of opening.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
See for example http://www.businessweek.com/stories/2007-04-16/the-restaurant-fail
ure-mythbusinessweek-business-news-stock-market-and-financial-advice
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Food quality, demand, management, and cost are just a few of a number of
 things that have been shown to determine restaurant success.
 This paper investigates whether we can predict restaurant closings using
 reviews on Yelp in addition to local economic amd demographic variables.
 Predicting business closings is an important topic for at least two distinct
 reasons.
 From a business owner's perspective, the earlier an owner knows the business
 is going to fail the quicker she can move onto something else instead of
 investing more time and money into a business that is almost surely going
 to fail.
 From the government's perspective, spending at restaurants is one of the
 first things to decrease as the economy enters a recession, but current
 measurement methods rely on surveys that take time to collect.
 Data from Yelp is accessible in real time which will allow us to construct
 a measure that could be constructed in real time and serve as a leading
 economic indicator.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Doing this within Yelp's API Terms of Use would be difficult at best.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper tries to account for two major reasons businesses close.
 First, a business may close because they provide poor service and/or bad
 food.
 Second, a business may close because poor economic conditions have caused
 the people who would normally frequent the business to decrease the frequency
 with which they eat out.
 The Yelp data provides a unique opportunity to measure business quality
 which lets us get at the first reason a business may close.
 It also provides information on the competition each business faces.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The primary data for this project comes from the Yelp Dataset Challenge.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge
\end_layout

\end_inset

 It contains information on businesses, primarily restaurants, in Phoenix,
 Madison, and Las Vegas.
 The information provided includes all of the reviews for a business as
 well as information about hours, type of cuisine, and importantly whether
 the business has shut down.
 We also observe restaurant's price ranges as well as location allowing
 us to decide whether there are similar restaurants in the area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our secondary data sources include data from the U.S.
 Census on demographics at the Census Tract level.
 These data allow us to estimate the demand for businesses of a certain
 type and let us control for the fact that changing economic climates effect
 people of different income levels and education differently.
 For example, you would expect a moderately priced restaurant in a poor
 area to be much more likely to go out of business during a recession than
 a moderately priced restaurant in a rich neighborhood.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our first task will be to predict individual business outcomes.
 The question will be given features 
\begin_inset Formula $\left\{ x_{1}^{t},\ldots,x_{K}^{t}\right\} $
\end_inset

 which are available at time 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 how well can we predict 
\begin_inset Formula $Y_{t+d}$
\end_inset

 which is an indicator of whether the business was closed at time 
\begin_inset Formula $t+d$
\end_inset

.
 We plan to do this for 
\begin_inset Formula $d=1,3,12$
\end_inset

 months.
 For this task variables can be divided into four broad categories 
\begin_inset Formula $X^{E}$
\end_inset

 which are economic variables such as the trend in unemployment rate in
 the area, 
\begin_inset Formula $X^{D}$
\end_inset

 which are demographic variables such as the population within some distance
 or race of that population these variables can also be taken as measures
 of demand for a given restaurant’s food, 
\begin_inset Formula $X^{Q}$
\end_inset

 which measure the quality of the restaurant which are features taken from
 Yelp reviews, and 
\begin_inset Formula $X^{C}$
\end_inset

 which measures the level of competition a business faces from other similar
 restaurants for example it could be restaurants of same cuisine per capita
 in the area.
 This evaluation criteria is of most interest to the business owner.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another evaluation criteria will be how well our classifier performs over
 some larger area.
 Let 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 be some area in a city and 
\begin_inset Formula $I^{A}$
\end_inset

 be the set of businesses that operate in that area.
 The goal is to predict 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\frac{\sum_{I^{A}}Y_{t+d}}{\#\left\{ I^{A}\right\} }
\]

\end_inset

the percent of businesses in an area that will close in the next 
\begin_inset Formula $d$
\end_inset

 months.
 This evaluation criteria is of interest to goverments because it provides
 information about local economic conditions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At this point we have completed the data collection phase and are moving
 on to the preprocessing of data.
 In particular, the restaurants must be mapped to Census tracts so we can
 include demographic information and the review text must be standardized
 before we can apply a bag of words model to it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Yelp Data have been used by a number of researchers to answer questions
 about business and review dynamics.
 Prior work has used Yelp data to predict the number of reviews a business
 will receive in the next 6 months based on previous reviews.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "BryanHood2013Inferring"

\end_inset

 This work focuses on the case when businesses receive no reviews over some
 time period.
 However, we extend this work in a number of ways.
 First, we incorporate outside information on demographics so we can estimate
 the demand for restaurants of a certain type.
 Second, we take into account the number of similar restaurants nearby.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Much of the work with Yelp has focused on extracting information from review
 text and star ratings on Yelp.
 For example, researchers have studied the extent to which we can predict
 what rating a user will give a location before the user visits a location
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Y.Koren2009Matrix"

\end_inset

.
 This work involves using latent factors models which have a number of known
 issues 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "McAuley2013Hidden"

\end_inset

.
 In particular, a significant number of star ratings are required before
 measures for the factors can be inferred from new products or users.
 This is know as the "cold start problem".
 This is important to our study because many restaurants close very quickly
 so it will be important that our classifier is able to deal with businesses
 that have only a few reviews.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To combat this problem we are exploring the "Hidden Factors as Topics",
 or HFT, model 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "McAuley2013Hidden"

\end_inset

.
 HFT is a statistical model that combines latent factors in numeric star
 ratings data with latent topics in associated review text.
 For an HFT, latent factors from numeric star ratings data and latent topics
 from review text are identified simultaneously in a single learning stage.
 Evaluation of HFT on various datasets, including data from the Yelp Dataset
 Challenge, found that the factors identified readily explained the variation
 present in the ratings and reviews.
 HFT also exhibited improved prediction accuracy especially for products
 and users with only a few ratings since more information can be gleaned
 from the ratings text than from a few numeric star ratings.
 Huang et al.
 (2014) use Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) to identify topics contained
 in user reviews.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "J.Huang2014Improving"

\end_inset

 The authors used reviews of restaurants found in data from the Yelp Dataset
 Challenge to train their topic model and found topics such as service,
 location, healthiness, value and decor.
 We are using these papers to guide us as we perform the preprocessing and
 feature selection stages of our model creation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "literature"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
