#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Using Yelp to Predict Restaurant Closings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Harsh Jha, John Maloney and Dominic Smith
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The task of our project remains the same as in the proposal.
 Given some date 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

 and area 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 we are building a model to predict the number of restaurants in 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 that will close within the 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 months following 
\begin_inset Formula $t$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our data comes from three sources.
 The first source is the Yelp dataset challenge.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Downloaded from http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge
\end_layout

\end_inset

 We have restricted this sample to 12k restaurants operating in either Phoenix,
 Las Vegas, or Madison.
 These data contain descriptive attributes and user reviews for each restaurant.
 The user reviews include textual comments and star ratings provided by
 Yelp users while the descriptive attributes include categorical and ordinal
 attributes such as type of food served, ambiance provided and price range.
 Our second source is the U.S.
 Decennial Census.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Downloaded from American Fact Finder at the Census Tract level.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 These data contain data on the income level, ethnic composition, and population
 of an area.
 The final data are from the Local Area Unemployment Statistics published
 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).
 They contain monthly unemployment rates at the city level.
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Downloaded from http://www.bls.gov/lau/#data
\end_layout

\end_inset

 The Yelp user reviews allow us to assess restaurant quality through review
 stars and sentiment expressed in textual comments as well as measure business
 attention through the number of reviews provided for each restaurant.
 The Yelp descriptive attributes allow us to measure the degree of similarity
 between restaurants.
 Data from the Census allow us to control for whether a restaurant is in
 an area where it should do well.
 For example, high priced restaurants should do better in high income areas.
 Data from the BLS allow us to control for aggregate economic conditions
 which make all restaurants more or less likely to close.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At this point we have downloaded all data we need from Yelp and the Census
 and are finishing the preprocessing.
 For the Yelp data we have matched each business to the appropriate Census
 tract and mapped the descriptive attributes to numeric values.
 We are working on estimating a closing date for each closed restaurant
 based on the date of the restaurant's final review.
 We currently have code running to preprocess the review text so that we
 can perform sentiment analysis.
 We are working on developing measures of how much competition a restaurant
 faces.
 These measures will involve the number of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

similar
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 restaurants within a given area.
 We are also working on taking user specific fixed effects out of star ratings
 to standardize what a given number of stars for a restaurant means.
 Finally, we are extracting features such as date of first review and reviews
 per month to use in our model.
 The Census data have been downloaded and will be merged to the Yelp data
 within the next few days.
 The BLS data have not been downloaded yet, because the historic data are
 revised regularly and we will want to use the most current data that is
 available for the date we choose for our prediction task.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Yelp data cover 2004-2014.
 Our initial plan is to select a date near the middle of the sample to serve
 as the prediction date.
 We will then use only information available on that date (reviews, unemployment
 statistics, etc) to fit our model.
 Our class labels will be based on how long a restaurant remains open after
 the chosen date.
 We are going to try running the classifier as both a two class problem
 where the positive class is closed by X months and as a k-class problem
 with classes such as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

closed 0-3 months after date
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

closed 4-9 months after
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

still open after 9 months
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 One area we are working on is the proper way to calculate error rates in
 our model.
 One option is to perform n-fold cross validation splitting data available
 for restaurants that are open on the date we select.
 We are concerned that we will have a small number of restaurants falling
 into the closed category if we use this approach causing our closed class
 to be a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

rare class
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Another option is to randomly pick 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 dates then use cross validation on the 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 dates.
 This approach lets us make more use of the amount of data we have, but
 there could be issues arising from the dates we select overlapping.
 For example, you would not want to train using January 1, 2010 then use
 February 1, 2010 as your test date.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Issues
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our main issue so far has been the amount of time preprocessing the review
 data has taken to run.
 We expect that our sentiment analysis program will run for a long time
 before providing results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another potential issue is the calculation of similarity between restaurants.
 The vast majority of the descriptive attributes available in the Yelp data
 set are categories to which a restaurant can be assigned.
 These categories have been mapped to binary attributes indicating whether
 or not the restaurant belongs to the category.
 There are a large number of categories and each restaurant belongs to only
 a few of them.
 This means that the data set is very sparse.
 This sparseness may cause problems when we attempt to calculate the similarity
 between restaurants.
 To alleviate this problem, we may need to aggregate some of the categories
 or perform feature selection to identify attributes that are actually useful
 for calculating similarity.
 Regardless of the additional processing performed on this data, we will
 need to choose a similarity measure that is appropriate for the data set.
 Besides the binary attributes just discussed, the data set also includes
 a smaller number of nominal and continuous attributes.
 Selecting a similarity measure that is effective for such a mixed data
 set could prove to be difficult.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "literature"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
